---
title: Against the Claim That Learning Two Languages at Once Is Wrong
---

# Against the Claim That Learning Two Languages at Once Is Wrong

A common belief is that learning two languages simultaneously is
inefficient—it supposedly slows you down, causes confusion, and results in
poor progress. Stories of people stuck at an A1 level in several languages
without significant improvement are easy to find online.

I have firsthand experience challenging this idea. As a child and teenager, I
learned French and English together. Between 18 and 22, I studied Spanish and
Italian. In my mid-20s, I took up Russian and German. Now, I’m learning
Vietnamese, with some Swahili and Arabic on the side.

From my experience, studying two languages at once does create some short-term
confusion, but it doesn’t matter much in the long run.

## The Myth of Confusion

It’s natural for learners to transfer vocabulary, grammar, and spelling from
one language to another. For instance, when I was in primary school, my French
was stronger than my English. I often used French spellings in English, like
_exercice_ instead of _exercise_. Over time, as my English
improved, these errors disappeared naturally.

I've experienced this as a teacher too. Many of my Greek students learning
Spanish initially apply English rules to Spanish, like keeping the subject
pronoun when it’s unnecessary or pronouncing _h_ the English way. But
these mistakes fade with practice and exposure.

The key takeaway is that these errors are temporary and don’t significantly
impede progress. They are part of the learning process and should be treated
as such.

## Cross-Language Influence

A curious phenomenon when learning two languages simultaneously is confusing
words that aren’t even similar. For example, while speaking Russian, I’ve
occasionally thought of a German word instead, even if it sounds entirely
different. This momentary confusion has no lasting impact—so long as you
recognize the source of the mistake.

What about learning two very similar languages, like Italian and Spanish? When
I did this, I often used Spanish words in Italian. However, this wasn’t just
because I learned them together; it’s also because my stronger language
(Spanish) influenced the weaker one (Italian).

While such mix-ups can be annoying, they can also be beneficial. Similar
languages make it easier to recognize words, guess meanings, and transfer
skills. For instance, the shared structures of Romance languages allow
learners to progress faster across related languages.

## Beyond Perfectionism

The worry about confusing languages is overblown and has had harmful
consequences, such as discouraging bilingualism or suppressing minority
languages. Instead, language learners—and their teachers—should embrace
mistakes as natural and necessary. Perfectionism can become a barrier to
progress.

As a sidenote, I’ve discovered that switching between languages is a skill
that improves with practice. Initially, I faced minor difficulties
transitioning from English to Spanish. Switching between Russian and Spanish,
however, proved much more challenging. With time and consistent practice,
though, this became much less of an issue.

## Efficiency and Learning Styles

Another argument against learning two languages at once is that it’s
inefficient. Critics claim you need to get through the beginner stage as
quickly as possible, and splitting your focus delays that progress.

In reality, this depends on your goals and preferences. For me, once I began
learning non-European languages, I found my progress slower and more
challenging. Studying multiple languages simultaneously provided variety,
keeping me engaged.

Of course, everyone learns differently. Your needs, learning style, and
available resources will influence whether learning two languages at once
works for you.

## Final Thoughts

There’s no universal “best” method for language learning, and it doesn’t need
to be all about efficiency. If learning two languages at once appeals to you,
it’s worth trying. The journey may have its challenges, but the rewards can
make it a deeply enriching experience.

<!-- <footer> -->
<!--   <p>Written by Georgios | © 2024</p> -->
<!-- </footer> -->
