![Toilet Image 1](https://i.imgur.com/eFaotme.png)

---

![Toilet Image 2](https://i.imgur.com/1r1ELJB.png)

---

In a traditional German toilet, the hole where waste disappears after flushing
is located at the front, allowing us to inspect and sniff the excrement for
signs of illness. In contrast, the typical French toilet places the hole at
the back, encouraging waste to disappear as quickly as possible. The American
(or Anglo-Saxon) toilet strikes a balance between these two extremes: the
basin is filled with water, so the waste floats, visible but not meant for
inspection. Itâ€™s clear that these designs cannot be explained solely by
utilitarian reasons. Each reflects an underlying ideological view of how we
should relate to excrement. The German approach suggests reflective
thoroughness, the French prioritize revolutionary hastiness, while the
American design embraces pragmatic disposal. Philosopher Hegel noted that
Germany, France, and England represent three distinct existential attitudes:
German thoroughness, French radicalism, and English pragmatism. Politically,
these attitudes manifest as German conservatism, French revolutionary
radicalism, and English liberalism. Toilets offer us a unique lense to observe
these ideologies in action, showing how different cultures relate to
"excremental excess": a fascination with it, a desire to get rid of it
quickly, or treating it pragmatically as ordinary waste. While some may argue
we live in a post-ideological age, a visit to the toilet reveals just how
deeply ideology permeates even the most intimate aspects of life. (Actual
quote)
